This folder contains a walkthrough of the present use case in R, specifically containing R code created in an [RMarkdown document](https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/) and the rendered HTML file. The code parallels the format of the Python walkthrough, using the same assessment prompt and following the same sections of the Jupyter Notebook walkthrough using Python. However this is not necessarily a direct or "one-to-one" translation of Python code into R.


HTML is the rendered dcoument from the .RMD code. The code may be easier to wok with interactively, bu the HTML document will present code and not require a user to have a working R or RStudio installation.

The following preface is included in the R documents (both the code and the rendered HTML file), but is included here for transparency: 


> This document was generated in [R](https://cran.rstudio.com/), using the [RStudio IDE](https://rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/) and [`knitr` package/engine (https://yihui.org/knitr/) and assumes the user is comfortable with working within RStudio and able to knit their R code (although knitting HTML and/or PDF documents is not required or assessed in any of these documents). These documents will also assume a user has a base familiarity in R that includes calling of packages using `library`, some basic syntactical elements in R (such as `<-` to create objects, the classes of objects within R, creating functions in R, etc.). For the sake of clarity, functions taken from specific packages will be called explicitly so that students can know the source package for each function (using R's generic `package::function` syntax). This is however unnecessary analytically. In presenting table output in the final markdown document (most commonly from `... %>% head()` function calls), I include the additional function `... %>% knitr::kable()`, which simply produces more visually appealing tables in HTML. This is not necessary when working within RStudio or for the generation of tables and is completely an aesthetic choice for presenting tables in the rendered document. 
  
> A small but important note is that this code heavily utilizes the pipe operator (`%>%`) from the `magrittr` package. This operator is ubiquitous in modern R code and extremely useful to understand (and useful in this document for presenting much more legible code for your review). A wonderful summary is available in Hadley Wickham's and Garret Grolemund's [R for Data Science book (specifically this linked section on the Pipe operator).](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/pipes.html)
  
> Lastly, R code will most often utilize the [`tidyverse` family of R packages](https://www.tidyverse.org/). These packages are useful wrapper functions that greatly streamline data cleaning and visualization, which will be conducted specifically using the `ggplot2` package's family of functions. 

  
> These documents ***will*** walk you through a solution pathway to the present use case. These documents ***will*** provide example R code to accomplish tasks with relevant annotations to sufficiently describe the purpose of and the code to accomplish each task. This code ***will not*** explicitly teach you R step-by-step or necessarily present all solutions. This code is also ***not*** necessarily formatted organized as may be most suitable/efficient for analysis but rather for education. You are heavily encouraged to pick/take any code or tips from this document and integrate them into a workflow that works best for the purposes of your work!
